The project explores the relationship between transfer fees and team performance among English Premier League teams in the long term and the short term. First, the project investigates the trend between the transfer fees and the number of wins from 2012 to 2022. Second, the project analyses the correlation between the transfer fees and the number of wins in 2023. Thirdly, a simple linear regression model was formed to predict the number of wins in the 2024 first leg. The project’s results will answer whether there is a relationship between transfer fees and team performance and does maintaining a high transfer fees in the long term are essential to influence future performance.


Through analysing the relationship between the transfer fees and the number of wins, this project determines that increase the transfer fees correlate to better performance. However, the increasing of the transfer fee needs to be a linear increase, which means that the clubs need to maintain a high transfer fee in the long term to influence future performance. Moreover, high transfer fees in the short term cannot influence performance in the short term. Therefore, they cannot be expected to influence performance in the long term.

Additionally, the source code in SQL, used to integrate and transform data, while R was used to visualise the insights for this project, can be found in the SQL and R folder.
The cleansed data used to analyse can be found in the Data folder, while the report of 2644 words can be found in the Report folder.
